you cannot move app service to destination subscription  if destination have already any app service plan or web app
for app service : Back up and restore are supported in Basic, Standard, Premium, and Isolated tiers. For Basic tier, only the production slot can be backed up and restored.
aap serviec and web app should be in same region 
.net core in linux and windows , asp.net in windows only , Ruby 2.6 is only  Linux only
CNAME record is required to map www.cloudportalweb.com to prodwebapp1.azurewebsites.net.
When mapping a custom domain to an Azure Web App, you typically use a CNAME record to point to the default domain provided by Azure for the app
You can turn on Web Server Logging. This will give a detail of all of the web server requests being made to the Azure Web App
You scale up by changing the pricing tier of the App Service plan that your app belongs to.
 Scale out: Increase the number of VM instances that run your app.
 
The I1 SKU allows your app to run on dedicated hardware, and also provides network isolation on top of compute isolation to protect your app. It also provides the maximum scale-out capabilities.

If you create a DNS zone in Azure, then you need to first make a note of the Name servers for the DNS zone. Then go to your DNS provider and enter the Name servers for your Domain.
azure dns zone : Manage and host your registered domain and associated records.

Azure DNS supports importing and exporting zone files by using the Azure command-line interface (CLI)
>﻿
Add a custom domain to your Azure
Create a CNAME DNS record.
Associate the custom domain with your CDN endpoint.
Verify the custom domain.

new-AzDNSrecordSet
Azure DNS private zone allows private name resolution between Azure Virtual Networks.

You have to modify the Name server records in the external domain registrar to reflect the Name server records provided in the Azure DNS zone

a. An "A" record maps a domain name to the IP address (IPv4) of the computer hosting the domain. It uses the domain name to find the IP address of a computer connected to the internet. In this case, we want mail.example.com to point directly to an IP address of your mail server.

b. A CNAME (Canonical Name) record is a type of DNS record that maps an alias name to a true or canonical domain name. CNAME records are typically used to map a subdomain such as www or mail to the domain hosting that subdomain’s content.

c. The MX (Mail Exchange) record is crucial for directing email to your domain, but it doesn't directly map to an IP address like the A or AAAA records. Instead, it points to a domain name (usually a subdomain like "mail.example.com").

d. In Azure DNS, you can create a TXT record for various purposes. For example, you might need to create a TXT record to verify that you own the domain you want to add to Microsoft 365. Or, you might need to create a TXT record to validate a custom domain for your app service.

Cloud Device Administrator
PRIVILEGED
This is a privileged role. Users in this role can enable, disable, and delete devices in Microsoft Entra ID and read Windows 10 BitLocker keys. The role does not grant permissions to manage any other properties on the device. this role allow  to add   regisrterd/joined devices to any group 

user adiminstration cannot add regisrterd/joined devices to any group 

To add or delete users from your Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) organization, you must be a User administrator or Global Administrator.
But only the user who creates a new tenant is added to it, and assigned the Global Administrator role.
User Administrators or Global Administrators in other tenants linked to the subscription do no inherit any administrative privileges on the new tenant.

only owner can give owner role

 User Administrator role assigned cannot add security questions, but only users with Global Administrator role can access and setup Azure Active Directory Self Service Password Reset, so the statement is False.

when creating new RBAC custom roles, you can clone existing in-built and custom roles.

application gateway for public, load balance for private

nic, nsg ,vnet , vm,vmss should be in same region and subsrctiption  (differnet rg can work )


one virtual hub per region

SAS tokens are typically used for blobs, queues, and tables, and stored access policies are specifically for controlling the start time, expiry time, and permissions for SAS tokens.

for administrator , password reset policy is differnet : The two-gate policy requires two pieces of authentication data, such as an email address, authenticator app, or a phone number, and it prohibits security questions. Office and mobile voice calls are also prohibited for trial or free versions of Microsoft Entra ID.

low priority vms , standard load balancer and scale set cannot be moved to other regions , 
You cannot assign a Basic SKU IP address to a Standard Load Balancer
to connect to azure firewall :  Public IP address needs be of the Standard SKU, and it needs be a Static IP address. It can be of the Regional or Global Tier.
To provide the ability to add the backend pool,health probe the user must have the ability to read the details of the virtual machine ,ips and the virtual network. For this reason, the user needs to be given access as the resource group level.

1.A standard load balancer is required for the HA ports.
2. Floating IP must be enabled if you need more than one HA port front end for the same back-end pool.
3. Two backend pools are needed since there are two services.

Microsoft Entra authentication allows users to connect to Azure using their Microsoft Entra credentials. Native Microsoft Entra authentication is only supported for OpenVPN protocol and also requires the use of the Azure VPN Client. The supported client operation systems are Windows 10 or later and macOS.


Azure container app for :
Deploying API endpoints
Hosting background processing jobs
Handling event-driven processing
Running microservices


The correct order of steps as follows:
Create an Azure container registry.
Choose a pricing tier.
Configure container registry settings.
Set up authentication and security.
Access and manage container images.


Use az network private-endpoint-connection approve to approve a private endpoint connection.

Azure AD Connect should be installed on a domain joined member server and not on a domain controller.

Add "https://autologon.microsoftazuread-sso.com" to the Intranet zone settings by using Group Policy in Active Directory

You can set an expiration policy only for Office 365 groups in Azure Active Directory

You can  detach the data disks and attach them to another VM without stopping either of the VMs.
new-azdiskconfig
new-azdisk


 SLA of 99.5% uptime,  combination of Azure Managed Disks and Azure availability sets
 SLA of 99.95% uptime,   Azure availability sets
 SLA of 99.99% uptime,   multiple availability zone
 
 To create a VM in an availability zone, we must use managed disks. 
 
 
Global Administrator is automatically assigned to whoever creates the tenant first
 only Global Administrator accounts can install and configure health agents
 
You plan to grant three users named User1, User2, and User3 access to a temporary Microsoft SharePoint document library named Library1.
You need to create groups for the users. The solution must ensure that the groups are deleted automatically after 180 days.
Which two groups should you create? .

an Office 365 group that uses the Assigned membership type
an Office 365 group that uses the Dynamic User membership type

read : Microsoft.Authorization/*/read
Microsoft.Authorization/
There is no option for /ResourceGroup, so for the scope the subscription and subscription ID must be selected. 

enable collection of guest OS diagnostics data = to collect data on the performance counters VM

Cloud-init is a widely used approach to customize a Linux VM as it boots for the first time. You can use cloud-init to install packages and write files, or to configure users and security. As cloud-init runs during the initial boot process,
The Linux Diagnostic Extension helps a user monitor the health of a Linux VM running on Microsoft Azure. 
You can then use the az vm create command for the deployment of the virtual machine


scaleset for new vm capacity :
az vmss scale --resource-group "skillcertpro-rg" --name skillcertproet --new-capacity 4
Deploy one virtual machine scale set that is set to ScaleSetVM orchestration mode.


 Upload a configuration to Azure Automation State Configuration. Compile a configuration into a node configuration. Onboard the virtual machines to Azure State Configuration. Assign the node configuration. Check the compliance status of the node.
 
Site-to-Site VPN connection : local network gateway : address range will be on prem ip
Site to Site VPN connections provide connectivity between an On-prem network and Azure Virtual Network using an encrypted tunnel over the public internet
site -site :
1) Create a gateway subnet

2) Create a local network gateway

3) Create a virtual network gateway

4) Create the VPN connection

vnet to on prem site to site :
 Create a connection
 Create a local site VPN gateway
 Create a VPN gateway that uses the VpnGw1 SKU

point-site : If you make a change to the azure vnet, VPN client packages must be reinstalled again on on prem
point -s ite : We need to setup a RouteBased VPN. An Azure Vnet gateway type cannot be changed from policy-based to route-based or the other way. The gateway must be deleted and recreated, a process taking around 60 minutes.
 
On-premise Active Directory, the user needs to have Enterprise Admin privileges.
  
file recovery steps from azure to on prem:
1.First choose File Recovery
2.Then choose the Recovery point and download the script
3.And finally, if your workstation is Windows, you can use File explorer to browse through the files


192.169.3.1/24 : u cannot change first 24 bits in this submet
nsg : first subnet , then NIC
 Ideally we should have separate subnet for each tier with in a virtual network.
ASGs is typically associated with NSGs.

A VM can only be added to an availability set when it is created
 the virtual machine contributor role will give permissions to the user to add the disks to the machine.
VM you wish to resize is part of an availability set, then you must stop all VMs in the availability set
Microsoft does not support moving VMs between virtual networks. So, we have delete the VM and create a new VM in target VNet.

User administrator – can create and manage users and groups, and can reset passwords for users, Helpdesk administrators and User administrators.
User Access Administrator – No access to the resource except the ability to change the access control.
Adding a group to an administrative unit brings the group itself into the management scope of the administrative unit, but not the members of the group
You can have Administrative Units and assign the administrators privilege over each unit. You can have one unit for each office.
You just need to specify the user principal name for each user in the list when submitted for the Bulk delete operation.

We can enable encryption on a running IaaS virtual machine in Azure.

AZure Disk encryption:
ADE is integrated with Azure Key Vault.
ADE encrypted VM can be backed up to the Recovery Service Vault.
ADE uses DM-Crypt for Linux-based VMs.
ADE uses BitLocker for Windows VM-controlled disks.

configure ADE for VM:
 Create an Azure Key Vault 
 Set the Key Vault access policy to Enable access to Azure Disk Encryption for volume encryption
 Run the Set-AzVMDiskEncryptionExtension cmdlet

A service tag represents a group of IP address prefixes from a given Azure service.

Each resource or resource group can indeed have a maximum of 50 tag name/value pairs.

organise resourses for cost reporting : Subscriptions, resource groups, and tags


before you can delete a recovery services vault,  you need to stop the backup and delete the backup data. , 
you cant delete a recovery services vault, having registered storage accounts.,protected data sources (f, IaaS VMs, SQL databases, or Azure file shares).
we can have one backup policy for the Azure virtual machines and one for Azure file shares. The Azure SQL Databases have a separate backup mechanism via automated backups

Azure Policy, you can assign it at the Tenant Root Group level.
You need to start adding exclusions from the Management Group onwards
The maximum level you can go till when it comes to assigning the Azure Policy is the Resource Group level.: means cannot assign it to virtual machine/resource level
you can add exclusions at the resource level

policy exection sequuence : disable,modify,deny,audit
Azure Policy definitions have modes like 'Indexed' and 'All'. There isn't a mode called 'DoNotAllow'.
New-AzNetworkSecurityRuleConfig 
New-AzNetworkSecurityGroup`
Set-AzStorageBlobContent
powershell commands :
get-azroledefination
new-azroledefination

Gatewaytransit is a peering property that lets one virtual network use the VPN gateway in the peered virtual network for cross-premises or VNet-to-VNet connectivity
You can’t add address ranges to, or delete address ranges from a virtual network’s address space once a virtual network is peered with another virtual network.
VNet-to-VNet connectivity : can be used generally in cross regions

Uniform Mode: In uniform mode, all VM instances in the VMSS are identical, using the same image and configuration. Since our requirement is to add custom virtual machines to VMSS, we need to choose orchestration mode as Flexi,
The FQDN will be returned as appvm.internal.cloudapp.net

Azure Monitor Agent (AMA) replaces the Log Analytics agent (also known as MMA and OMS)

default frequency of collecting platform metrics : 1 minute

data collect rule: 
sorce VM only , destination : log analytic workspace only

Azure Monitor Log Analytics allows you to query and analyze detailed records from various sources, making it suitable for analyzing system updates across VMs.

1 azure bastion is enough fro all virtual networks connected

The Azure Backup vault was an older construct and has been superseded by the Recovery Services vault.

In Entra ID, licenses can be assigned both to individual users and to groups. Licenses are not automatically provisioned for every user upon creation. Users can also have multiple licenses.
License cannot be assigned to a user without a usage location specified.

bicep:
1.Azure CLI can be used to directly convert ARM template JSON files to Bicep files.

b. Bicep files can be deployed to Azure without first converting them to ARM templates, as Azure CLI and PowerShell can handle the transpilation for you.

c. A Bicep file can also be translated to its equivalent ARM template, allowing users to see what the ARM JSON representation would look like.

d. Validate a Bicep file using Azure PowerShell without deploying it. Use the what-if operation to verify that the Bicep file makes the changes that you expect.

arm to bicep : bicep decomplie "template.json"
bicep to arm : bicep build"template.bicep"
vmsize : 'Standard_DS1_v2 '

View template from deployment history: Go to the resource group for your new resource group.

In complete mode, the Resource Manager deletes resources in the resource group that aren't specified in the template.

When deploying a virtual machine from a saved template, you must specify the Resource Group name.

to export deployment template using powershell : Save-AzResourceGroupDeploymentTemplate 


Once you add a cloud endpoint to a Sync group, you can’t add any other shares as the cloud endpoint.
Once you add a server as a server endpoint with a particular file path, you can’t add the server as another endpoint with another path.

you can’t enable Multi-Factor authentication for external users. There is no dependency as such on the phone numbers. : can be added in latest
Microsoft Entra B2B collaboration allows organizations to work with external users by inviting them to their Microsoft Entra tenant
access control -grant : ensure the setting of MFA
condition section: location,platofrm,apps
configure fraud alerts for spam mfa
sms and autheticator app : both mfa and sspr
how to configure sspr : 
· Configure the required permissions for password writeback
· Enable the password writeback option in Azure AD Connect
· Enable password writeback in Azure AD SSPR

You need to create a conditional access policy that requires all users to use multi-factor authentication when they access the Azure portal.:
 Users and Groups
 Cloud Apps
 Grant

User2 is from Windows server active directory, you must use Windows Server Active Directory to update the identity,contact info, or job
You can update usage location for all users. 

You can use the Azure Site Recovery tool to move the servers to Azure.
the replication type of the storage account can be changed to Zone redundant storage only if the current replication technique is either LRS or GRS.
azure recovery service vault should be in same region .blob data cannot be bacckup in RSV(it need a backup valut)
BLOB and file service is supported with the import  job feature,Only the BLOB service is supported with the Export job feature
When transferring data to an Azure storage account, you can transfer data to Azure blob storage or Azure file storage.

for import data : 
Detach the external disks from Server1 and ship the disks to an Azure data center
From the Azure portal, create an import job
Attach an external disk to Server1 and then run waimportexpot.exe
From the Azure portal, update the import job
 

For Azure Files, you can use Entra ID-based authentication (identity-based) and storage account keys.
access keys + sas : files
entra ID + SAS : blobs
sas : premium file storage

to minimizes the number of secrets need to be configured in the application.
Once you create a managed identity, you need to provide access through IAM. not sas (sas only in case of time )

high performacnce scale applications : premium file share
Live migration is not supported for General Purpose V1 storage accounts,FileStorage accounts and BLOB premium
Live migration is not supported in  case : NFSv3 protocol support is enabled for Azure Blob Storage : only manual migration is allowed
You can persist data for Azure Container Instances with the use of Azure Files.
For Azure File storage, you can only use Shared Access Signatures when it comes to authorization.
For Azure Blob storage, you can only use Azure AD and Shared Access Signatures when it comes to authorization.
Azure Files provides the capability to take snapshots of SMB file shares. Share snapshots capture the share state at that point in time.
ra-grs does not support files
grs gives :99.99% over a year


kubenet : metro : pods have differnet ips that the vnet ,
azure cni : highways : pods have same ips from the vnet ,
If the cluster is using kubenet as the underlying network layer, then you can use Calico Network Policies to restrict traffic between pods.
set-azakscluster
az-aks command to autoscale
First push the application image to the container registry. Then you can deploy the container on the cluster based on the image stored in the container registry.
kubectl autoscale deployment azure-vote-front –cpu-percent=50 –min=3 –max=10
Use the az aks update command to enable and configure the cluster autoscaler on the node pool for the existing cluster.
Set-AzAks  :Creates or updates a Kubernetes cluster


look back window over which metric values are checked, while configuring a static threshold metric alert rule ? : period
 
If read only lock on resources only :Resources can be moved to another another resource group
If read only lock on resources group only :Resources cannot  be moved to another another resource group
You cannot move existing resources to the resource group having policy enabled. The policy is applied  also when creating or updating a resource.
You can move the resourse from the rg having the policy applied 
subnet can be created ,if policy is applied on virtual netwrok

1 region : multiple datacentre
avaiblity set in one datacentre only
one avialbility zone : accross locations in one datacentre
multiple avialbility zone : accross different datacentres, in one region

You can have up to 3 fault domains.(minimum 2)
You can have up to 20 update domains.(minimum 2)
27 vms on 5 updaet domains: 27/5 = 5 it means 2 updaet domains have 6 and 3 update domins have 5 vms each

to get diagonistics from VM , first step : You need to create a storage account to store it

Service endpoints allow you to restrict access to Azure PaaS services to specific VNets, making them suitable for securing Azure SQL Database access from a VNet.

Monitoring
Topology view : shows you the resources in your virtual network and the relationships between them.
Connection monitor  : allows you to monitor connectivity and latency between endpoints inside and outside Azure.,continous , average route time

Network diagnostic tools:
IP flow verify :allows you to detect traffic filtering issues at a virtual machine level.,verify the flow of traffic
ip flow : capability enables you to specify a source and destination IPv4 address, port, protocol (TCP or UDP), and traffic direction (inbound or outbound) If the connection fails, IP flow verify tells you which security rule allowed or denied the communication.
IP flow  verify : checks if a packet is allowed or denied to or from a virtual machine. The information consists of direction, protocol, local IP, remote IP, local port, and a remote port. If the packet is denied by a security group, the name of the rule that denied the packet is returned.


NSG diagnostics allows you to detect traffic filtering issues at a virtual machine, virtual machine scale set, or application gateway level.
Next hop helps you verify traffic routes and detect routing issues.

Connection troubleshoot enables a one-time connectivity and latency check between a virtual machine and Bastion host, application gateway, or another virtual machine.

Packet capture enables you to capture your virtual machine traffic.

VPN troubleshoot runs multiple diagnostics checks on your VPN gateways and connections to help debug issues.

Traffic
NSG flow logs and VNet flow logs (preview) : allow you to log network traffic passing through your network security groups (NSGs) and virtual networks respectively.

Traffic analytics: processes your NSG flow log data enabling you to visualize, query, analyze, and understand your network traffic.

connection troubleshoot : from one vm to another at a particular time

Network Performance Monitor: latency between your on-premises network and the virtual machines.

To record the successful and failed connection requests, we should use Azure Network Watcher flow logs. First, we can enable Network Watcher in the region of our choice and then use the Azure Network Watcher flow logs.The flow logs are then written to a storage account

The performance diagnostics tool helps you troubleshoot performance issues that can affect a Windows or Linux virtual machine (VM). Supported troubleshooting scenarios include quick checks on known issues and best practices, and complex problems that involve slow VM performance or high usage of CPU, disk space, or memory.
It Checks for known issues, analyzes best practices, and collects diagnostics data and captures a network trace and SMB counters.

variable packet capture : netwrok intrusions
network watcher : netwrok intrusions
Create a virtual network
Create a virtual machine with a network security group associated to its network interface
Register Microsoft.insights provider
Enable flow logging for a network security group using Network Watcher flow logs
Download logged data
View logged data
You need to create a graph visualization to display the traffic flow between the virtual machines.: 
From Workbooks, create a workbook.

A Log Analytics workspace is a data repository for Azure Monitor log data. A pre-requisite in order to use Network Performance Monitor.

This question is a bit tricky. The Microsoft Monitoring Agent is actually installed and NOT added to a VM.
So the full solution path would be:
You create an Azure Log Analytics workspace and configure the data settings. You install the Microsoft Monitoring Agent on VM1. You create an alert in Azure Monitor and specify the Log Analytics workspace as the source.

In order for a user to be allowed to enable Traffic Analytics for an Azure subscription, the user must have one of the following roles assigned at the subscription level: owner, contributor, reader, or network contributor.

You need to record all the successful and failed connection attempts to VM1."
 Enable Azure Network Watcher flow logs.
 Enable Azure Network Watcher in the East US Azure region.
 Create an Azure Storage account.
 
Your account must have any one of the following Azure roles at the subscription scope: owner, contributor, reader, or network contributor to enable traffic analytics.

route table :
Address prefix – Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) notation that you want to route traffic to. In this case, Vnet 1
Next Hop is the VM1. So, it is Virtual Appliance
Assignment – This route is to be followed by Gateway Subnet for the incoming traffic

Live metrics stream in application insights includes such information as the number of incoming requests, the duration of those requests, and any failures that occur. You can also inspect critical performance metrics such as processor and memory.